Adding new concepts and procedures for Multi CV hosts and AKs (#3609)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/con_how-content-view-environments-are-handled-during-registration-with-multiple-activation-keys.adoc

[id="how-content-view-environments-are-handled-during-registration-with-multiple-activation-keys"]

> = How content view environments are handled during registration with multiple activation keys

Reviewer: This heading is too long.

How about _Multiple activation keys and content environments_?

Author: Yeah it should be shorter. I like your suggestion. I was also thinking _Content view environments with multiple activation keys_. But I think yours is more clear.

When multiple activation keys assign the same attributes, {Project} decides how to resolve conflicts.
In general, the host receives the union of non-conflicting settings and the setting from the last activation key for conflicting settings.

Conflicting settings (where the setting from the last activation key wins) include:

* System purpose attributes
* Release version

Non-conflicting settings (where the host receives the union of them) include:

* Host collections

.Behavior according to the *Allow multiple content views* setting
Activation key behavior regarding multiple content view environments depends on the `allow_multiple_content_views` setting.
If you enable `allow_multiple_content_views`, content view environments are treated as non-conflicting.
If you disable `allow_multiple_content_views`, content view environments are considered conflicting.

When you enable `allow_multiple_content_views` and register a host with multiple activation keys, the host receives all content view environments from each activation key, in the order they are passed.

> ====

Reviewer: The example blocks aren't properly formatted because there are newlines missing before and after the lists. Please, fix that.

Assuming that:
* Activation key `ak_multi` assigns content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`.
* Activation key `ak4` assigns content view environments `dev/cv4`.
A host registered with activation keys `ak_multi` and `ak4` receives content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`, and `dev/cv4`.
If the order is reversed, with `ak4` followed by `ak_multi`, the host receives content view environments `dev/cv4`, `dev/cv2`, and `dev/cv3`.
====

When you disable `allow_multiple_content_views` and register a host with multiple activation keys, the host receives the content view environments from the last activation key with any content view environments.
If any of the activation keys is a multi-environment activation key, registration fails with an error, regardless of the order.

> ====

Reviewer: The same here.

Registering a host with multiple activation keys assigns different attributes from each key, and their combined settings determine the host's configuration.
Note that multiple activation keys and multiple content view environments are not the same.
Activation keys assign specific attributes to hosts during registration.
For instance, one activation key assigns system purpose attributes, another assigns repository set content overrides, and a third assigns the host's content view environments.
When you register a host with these three activation keys, it inherits the system purpose attributes, content overrides, and content view environments from all the keys combined.

When multiple activation keys assign the same attributes, {Project} decides how to resolve conflicts.
In general, the host receives the union of non-conflicting settings and the setting from the last activation key for conflicting settings.

Conflicting settings (where the setting from the last activation key wins) include:

* System purpose attributes
* Release version

Non-conflicting settings (where the host receives the union of them) include:

* Host collections

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.Behavior according to the *Allow multiple content views* setting
```

Activation key behavior regarding multiple content view environments depends on the `allow_multiple_content_views` setting.
If you enable `allow_multiple_content_views`, content view environments are treated as non-conflicting.
If you disable `allow_multiple_content_views`, content view environments are considered conflicting.

When you enable `allow_multiple_content_views` and register a host with multiple activation keys, the host receives all content view environments from each activation key, in the order they are passed.

> For example:
> 
> * Activation key `ak_multi` assigns content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`.
> * Activation key `ak4` assigns content view environments `dev/cv4`.
> 
> A host registered with activation keys `ak_multi` and `ak4` receives content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`, and `dev/cv4`.
> If the order is reversed, with `ak4` followed by `ak_multi`, the host receives content view environments `dev/cv4`, `dev/cv2`, and `dev/cv3`.

Reviewer: I'd like to make this into an example block if you're okay with that:

```suggestion
====
Assuming that:

* Activation key `ak_multi` assigns content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`.
* Activation key `ak4` assigns content view environments `dev/cv4`.

A host registered with activation keys `ak_multi` and `ak4` receives content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`, and `dev/cv4`.
If the order is reversed, with `ak4` followed by `ak_multi`, the host receives content view environments `dev/cv4`, `dev/cv2`, and `dev/cv3`.
====
```

Author: Totally good with that.

When you disable `allow_multiple_content_views` and register a host with multiple activation keys, the host receives the content view environments from the last activation key with any content view environments.
If any of the activation keys is a multi-environment activation key, registration fails with an error, regardless of the order.

> For example:
> 
> * Activation key `ak_multi` assigns content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`.
> * Activation key `ak4` assigns content view environment `dev/cv4`.
> * Activation key `ak5` assigns content view environment `dev/cv5`.
> * Activation key `ak_none` assigns no content view environments.
> 
> If you attempt to register a host with activation keys `ak_multi`, `ak4`, registration fails because `ak_multi` is a multi-environment activation key.
> 
> If you register a host with activation keys `ak4`, `ak5`, the host receives `dev/cv5`, as `ak5` is the last activation key with content view environments.
> 
> If you register a host with activation keys `ak4`, `ak5`, `ak_none`, the host receives `dev/cv5` because `ak5` is the last activation key with content view environments.
> 
> If you register a host with activation keys `ak5`, `ak4`, the host receives `dev/cv4`, as `ak4` is the last activation key with content view environments.

Reviewer: Another example block:
```suggestion
====
Assuming that:

* Activation key `ak_multi` assigns content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`.
* Activation key `ak4` assigns content view environment `dev/cv4`.
* Activation key `ak5` assigns content view environment `dev/cv5`.
* Activation key `ak_none` assigns no content view environments.

If you attempt to register a host with activation keys `ak_multi`, `ak4`, registration fails because `ak_multi` is a multi-environment activation key.

If you register a host with activation keys `ak4`, `ak5`, the host receives `dev/cv5`, as `ak5` is the last activation key with content view environments.

If you register a host with activation keys `ak4`, `ak5`, `ak_none`, the host receives `dev/cv5` because `ak5` is the last activation key with content view environments.

If you register a host with activation keys `ak5`, `ak4`, the host receives `dev/cv4`, as `ak4` is the last activation key with content view environments.
====
```

> [id="how_content_view_environments_are_handled_during_registration_with_multiple_activation_keys_{context}"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="how-content-view-environments-are-handled-during-registration-with-multiple-activation-keys"]
```

= How content view environments are handled during registration with multiple activation keys

> Registering a host with multiple activation keys assigns different attributes from each key, and their combined settings determine the host’s configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registering a host with multiple activation keys assigns different attributes from each key, and their combined settings determine the host's configuration.
```

Please use "normal" single quote.

Note that multiple activation keys and multiple content view environments are not the same.
Activation keys assign specific attributes to hosts during registration.
For instance, one activation key assigns system purpose attributes, another assigns repository set content overrides, and a third assigns the host's content view environments.
When you register a host with these three activation keys, it inherits the system purpose attributes, content overrides, and content view environments from all the keys combined.

> When multiple activation keys assign the same attributes, {Project} decides how to resolve conflicts. In general, the host receives the union of non-conflicting settings and the setting from the last activation key for conflicting settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When multiple activation keys assign the same attributes, {Project} decides how to resolve conflicts.
In general, the host receives the union of non-conflicting settings and the setting from the last activation key for conflicting settings.
```

Please align to our convention "one sentence per line".

If any of the activation keys is a multi-environment activation key, registration fails with an error, regardless of the order.

For example:

* Activation key `ak_multi` assigns content view environments `dev/cv2`, `dev/cv3`.
* Activation key `ak4` assigns content view environment `dev/cv4`.
* Activation key `ak5` assigns content view environment `dev/cv5`.
* Activation key `ak_none` assigns no content view environments.

If you attempt to register a host with activation keys `ak_multi`, `ak4`, registration fails because `ak_multi` is a multi-environment activation key.

If you register a host with activation keys `ak4`, `ak5`, the host receives `dev/cv5`, as `ak5` is the last activation key with content view environments.

If you register a host with activation keys `ak4`, `ak5`, `ak_none`, the host receives `dev/cv5` because `ak5` is the last activation key with content view environments.

If you register a host with activation keys `ak5`, `ak4`, the host receives `dev/cv4`, as `ak4` is the last activation key with content view environments.

> 

Reviewer 2: same as above.
